R/oas_summary.md, before:

OAS Summary
================
<sup>Last updated: 2022-12-22</sup>

- <a href="#validity-and-source-of-errors"
  id="toc-validity-and-source-of-errors">Validity and source of errors</a>
- <a href="#server" id="toc-server">Server</a>
- <a href="#paths" id="toc-paths">Paths</a>
- <a href="#json-schema" id="toc-json-schema">JSON Schema</a>
- <a href="#licensing" id="toc-licensing">Licensing</a>
- <a href="#security" id="toc-security">Security</a>
- <a href="#responses" id="toc-responses">Responses</a>

<sup>*DISCLAIMER: the results and findings below are preliminary and
have not been fully validated or peer reviewed. Use with care. Do not
quote or disseminate.*</sup>

This document enumerates the research questions and topics we are
investigating in the knowledge base around OpenAPI specifications and
provides a summary of findings. More in-depth analysis is available for
selected topics.

## Validity and source of errors

### How many valid OpenAPIs do we have?

<sup>See [validity analysis](oas_validity.md) for further details.<sup>

Out of 15,644 APIs, 12,085 (77.3%) are valid.

### What are the primary sources of error in APIs?

*This research topic will be initiated shortly*

## Server

<sup>See [servers analysis](oas_servers.md) for further details.</sup>

### How is the server property used in APIs?

- Out of 4,627 valid OpenAPI version 2.x specifications, 3,414 (73.8%)
  have a `host` property, 3,388 (73.2%) have a `basePath` property, and
  3,737 (80.8%) have a `schemes` property.

- Out of 7,458 valid OpenAPI version 3.x specifications, 6,025 (80.8%)
  have a `servers` property, with an average of 1.3 server/entry, and a
  range of 0-13.

### How often do APIs use localhost vs domain based servers?

- Out of the 10,917 server entries (across all APIs), 1,849 (16.9%)
  contain localhost or 127.0.0.1, 6,417 (58.8%) use a DNS host, and 530
  (4.9%) use a variable template (3.x only). 1,291 (11.8%) use a
  relative path (no server specified).
- 4,039 (37%) use an <http://> protocol, and 6,339 (58.1%) <https://>.

## Paths

<sup>See [paths analysis](oas_paths.md) for further details.</sup>

### How is the path property used in APIs?

- The average number of path per API is 11.2, ranging from 1 to 310.
- Out of the 11,650 APIs with a path, 6,406 (55%) have 1-5 paths, 1,862
  (16%) have 6-10 paths, 1,758 (15.1%) have 11-20 paths, 1,148 (9.9%)
  have 21-50 paths, and 476 (0.04085837%) have over 50 paths.

## JSON Schema

### What is average number of locally defined JSON objects per API?

- The average number of JSON objects defined locally under /definitions
  (Swagger) or /components/schema (OpenAPI) is 21.7, ranging from 1 to
  642.
- Out of the 9,944 APIs, 4,063 (40.9%) have 1-5 entries, 1,791 (18%)
  have 6-10 entries, 1,524 (15.3%) have 11-20 entries, 1,390 (14%) have
  21-50 entries, and 1,176 (11.8%) have over 50 entries.

## Licensing

### How is the license property used in APIs?

- Out of 12,085 valid APIs, 4,072 (33.7%) have a `license` property,
  with 3,651 (30.2%) providing both the `name` and `url`.
- Out of the 89 v3.1 APIs with a license, 4 (4.5%) use the `identifier`
  property (introduced in 3.1).

### What is the breakdown of licenses use by the APIs?

- Analysis based on a simple harmonization method looking at terms in
  the license name and url values indicates that 2,083 (51.2%) of the
  APIs use an Apache license.
- Other notable categories include MIT (16.1%), Creative Commons (8.2%),
  GNU/GPL (4.6%).
- 13.4% are categorized as Other.

## Security

### How are the security related properties used in APIs?

<sup>*Note that in OpenAPI versions 3, `securityDefinitions` was renamed
to `securitySchemes` and moved inside `components`, and the
`type: basic` was replaced with `type: http` with
`scheme: basic`.*</sup>

- Out of 12,085 valid APIs, 2,380 (19.7%) have a `security` property.

- For Swagger (v2.x), out of the 4,627 valid APIs, 1,938 (41.9%) have a
  `securityDefinitions` property. The `type` is distributed as 1,346
  (46%) apiKey, 1,262 (43.1%) oauth2, and 320 (10.9%) basic.

- For OpenAPI (v3.x), out of the 7,458 valid APIs, 3,217 (43.1%) have a
  `components/securitySchemes` property. The `type` is distributed as
  1,685 (37.9%) apiKey, 1,531 (34.4%) http, 1,104 (24.8%) oauth2, 56
  (1.3%) openIdConnect, and 70 (1.6%) empty value.

- As only 838 (18.1%) of v2.x and 1,542 (20.7%) of v3.x APIs have a
  `security` property, it suggest that the security schemes may not
  always be used. This requires further investigation.

## Responses

### What is the breakdown of status codes in the OpenAPIs responses?

*This research topic will be initiated shortly*

Commit message:

Added server top level domain analysis

R/oas_summary.md, after:

OAS Summary
================
<sup>Last updated: 2022-12-23</sup>

- <a href="#validity-and-source-of-errors"
  id="toc-validity-and-source-of-errors">Validity and source of errors</a>
- <a href="#server" id="toc-server">Server</a>
- <a href="#paths" id="toc-paths">Paths</a>
- <a href="#json-schema" id="toc-json-schema">JSON Schema</a>
- <a href="#licensing" id="toc-licensing">Licensing</a>
- <a href="#security" id="toc-security">Security</a>
- <a href="#responses" id="toc-responses">Responses</a>

<sup>*DISCLAIMER: the results and findings below are preliminary and
have not been fully validated or peer reviewed. Use with care. Do not
quote or disseminate.*</sup>

This document enumerates the research questions and topics we are
investigating in the knowledge base around OpenAPI specifications and
provides a summary of findings. More in-depth analysis is available for
selected topics.

## Validity and source of errors

### How many valid OpenAPIs do we have?

<sup>See [validity analysis](oas_validity.md) for further details.<sup>

Out of 15,644 APIs, 12,085 (77.3%) are valid.

### What are the primary sources of error in APIs?

*This research topic will be initiated shortly*

## Server

<sup>See [servers analysis](oas_servers.md) for further details.</sup>

### How is the server property used in APIs?

- Out of 4,627 valid OpenAPI version 2.x specifications, 3,414 (73.8%)
  have a `host` property, 3,388 (73.2%) have a `basePath` property, and
  3,737 (80.8%) have a `schemes` property.

- Out of 7,458 valid OpenAPI version 3.x specifications, 6,025 (80.8%)
  have a `servers` property, with an average of 1.3 server/entry, and a
  range of 0-13.

### How often do APIs use localhost vs domain based servers?

- Out of the 10,917 host/servers entries (across all APIs), 1,849
  (16.9%) contain localhost or 127.0.0.1, 6,417 (58.8%) use a DNS host,
  and 530 (4.9%) use a variable template (3.x only). 1,291 (11.8%) use a
  relative path (no server specified).
- 4,039 (37%) use an <http://> protocol, and 6,339 (58.1%) <https://>.

### What are the most commonly found top level domains?

- The top 3 most commonly found top level domains in our API collection
  are swaggerhub.com (613), azure.com (358), and swagger.io (337).

## Paths

<sup>See [paths analysis](oas_paths.md) for further details.</sup>

### How is the path property used in APIs?

- The average number of path per API is 11.2, ranging from 1 to 310.
- Out of the 11,650 APIs with a path, 6,406 (55%) have 1-5 paths, 1,862
  (16%) have 6-10 paths, 1,758 (15.1%) have 11-20 paths, 1,148 (9.9%)
  have 21-50 paths, and 476 (0.04085837%) have over 50 paths.

## JSON Schema

### What is average number of locally defined JSON objects per API?

- The average number of JSON objects defined locally under /definitions
  (Swagger) or /components/schema (OpenAPI) is 21.7, ranging from 1 to
  642.
- Out of the 9,944 APIs, 4,063 (40.9%) have 1-5 entries, 1,791 (18%)
  have 6-10 entries, 1,524 (15.3%) have 11-20 entries, 1,390 (14%) have
  21-50 entries, and 1,176 (11.8%) have over 50 entries.

## Licensing

### How is the license property used in APIs?

- Out of 12,085 valid APIs, 4,072 (33.7%) have a `license` property,
  with 3,651 (30.2%) providing both the `name` and `url`.
- Out of the 89 v3.1 APIs with a license, 4 (4.5%) use the `identifier`
  property (introduced in 3.1).

### What is the breakdown of licenses use by the APIs?

- Analysis based on a simple harmonization method looking at terms in
  the license name and url values indicates that 2,083 (51.2%) of the
  APIs use an Apache license.
- Other notable categories include MIT (16.1%), Creative Commons (8.2%),
  GNU/GPL (4.6%).
- 13.4% are categorized as Other.

## Security

### How are the security related properties used in APIs?

<sup>*Note that in OpenAPI versions 3, `securityDefinitions` was renamed
to `securitySchemes` and moved inside `components`, and the
`type: basic` was replaced with `type: http` with
`scheme: basic`.*</sup>

- Out of 12,085 valid APIs, 2,380 (19.7%) have a `security` property.

- For Swagger (v2.x), out of the 4,627 valid APIs, 1,938 (41.9%) have a
  `securityDefinitions` property. The `type` is distributed as 1,346
  (46%) apiKey, 1,262 (43.1%) oauth2, and 320 (10.9%) basic.

- For OpenAPI (v3.x), out of the 7,458 valid APIs, 3,217 (43.1%) have a
  `components/securitySchemes` property. The `type` is distributed as
  1,685 (37.9%) apiKey, 1,531 (34.4%) http, 1,104 (24.8%) oauth2, 56
  (1.3%) openIdConnect, and 70 (1.6%) empty value.

- As only 838 (18.1%) of v2.x and 1,542 (20.7%) of v3.x APIs have a
  `security` property, it suggest that the security schemes may not
  always be used. This requires further investigation.

## Responses

### What is the breakdown of status codes in the OpenAPIs responses?

*This research topic will be initiated shortly*
